# Outline
## Chapter 1.1 What is the goal of OpenXR
OpenXR is a royalty-free, open standard developed and maintained by the Khronos Group to enable the easy creation of XR applications across a variety of vendor-specific hardware and XR runtimes. XR, Virtual (V) and Augmented (A) reality, encompasses the two major formats of interactive and immersive graphics applications that incorporate visual input and/or actions from/within the physical world. The OpenXR 1.0 specification was released on July 29th 2019 and with the goal of creating a unified programming approach for XR developers, thus addressing the most pressing issue at that time: Software Fragmentation.
The unification of the XR application interface removed the need for developers to support multiple vendor-specific APIs, which at the time increased costs, complexity and the time to test applications and thus restricted the ability of developers to port applications to other XR systems. The unified API can target multiple XR runtimes and a multitude of XR systems and Graphics APIs.

## Chapter 1.2 High Level overview of the components of OpenXR (Application - Loader - API layers - Runtime - Graphics - Input System)
OpenXR has multiple components that constitute to create the foundation of an XR experience. As a Khronos specification, OpenXR takes a lot of its lexicon and API style from Vulkan; providing a clear and precise common language for developers and hardware vendors to use. Much like the Vulkan API, OpenXR uses concepts such as the Loader to locate and initialise a Runtime and report its functionality to the Application. Graphics are a vital part of the XR experience and they are enabled by Instance extensions. OpenXR supports various Graphics APIs with support for future ones too. The following is a high level overview of the components of OpenXR, which are vital in setting up the groundwork for your XR application.